Okay let me now introduce how we
evaluate named entity recognition.
In the named entity recognition task,
we have a sequence of word tokens.
And what we're going to want
to do is predict entities.
So we're going to want to predict that
this is an organization, these two words.
These two words are a person,
this one word is an organization.
So in general, we can have entity
names that are several tokens long and
we want to identify both
the boundaries of the entity and
then also its class, if this is a person.
Now you can think of that as making a
classification for each token in sequence.
But in a way that doesn't
terribly make sense.
because really, our unit of
interest is these whole entities,
the person and the organizations.
And so the standard and better task
motivated evaluation that's used for
named entity recognition is to
evaluate per entity, not per token.
And so
when we're working out our two-by-two,
contingency table of true positives.
And so on.
And here's our system guess.
What we're going to do,
is do it at the level of entities.
So in this data there are three entities,
and we could imagine perhaps,
that our system identified
this one as a person name,
and identified this one as an organization
name, but missed this one.
So what we'll be doing is saying that
there are two true positives and
one false negative out
of the three tokens and
so the precision of our
system here is 100%.
Everything it says is right and
its recall is two thirds.
Okay, so that looks okay but
when we get into the details it gets
a little bit trickier than that.
So the problem is that recall and
precision are straightforward for
tasks like web search information
retrieval, or text categorization, where
there is only one grain size that you're
putting a classification on a document.
But in this case, what we're doing
is putting classifications on
subsequences of words and the precision
recall on F-measures actually behave
a bit funnily when that happens.
So here's an example to give you
a good sense of the problems
which actually occur commonly in systems.
So here's the piece of text,
First Bank of Chicago announced earnings.
And the correct entity is right here.
First Bank of Chicago which is
a single organization name.
However, our system made
a little bit of a booboo.
Our system has said, Bank of Chicago
is the name of an organization,
and so
that means it's made a boundary error.
It's got the right boundary
of the entity correct, but
it's got the left boundary
of the entity wrong.
And this is the kind of error
that NER systems make a lot.
And it's very easy to see in this case why
it's made the error, because first is also
a common noun, and at the start of a
sentence it's perfectly reasonable to have
a common noun of first Apple announced
this, and then Microsoft announced this.
So, intuitively you
might feel like really,
in this case the named entity recognized
should be counted as mostly correct.
It identified that there was
an organization name here, and
it labeled three of the four tokens.
But that's not how things work using
the set based measures of false positives,
false negatives, true positives and true
negatives when you're working on sequences
because what we say is that the true
annotation is that there's
an organization that spans
from token one through
token four of the text.
Whereas what our system guessed
is that there was an organization
that spanned from token two
through token four of the text.
And each of these claims
is taken as a unit and
is put into a set of claims and then
we count the number of matching claims,
that's the true positives and
then we count the set differences
in both directions and that gives us the
false positives and the false negatives.
So what we end up with
in our classification,
in this case is that
this is a false negative.
And that this one here
is a false positive.
And so actually our system will be scored
as having made two errors if it does this.
And so actually the system would have
scored better in an F1 evaluation
of named entity recognition
by having labeled nothing.
Now that can be easily seem
kind of wrong to you, and
it has seemed wrong to other people,
so there have been various suggestions
to provide measures for
evaluating the entity recognition systems.
But you get partial credit for
doing things like this, for
getting entity almost right.
So for example, the MUC scorer that was
used in some of the prominent early
evaluations of entity recognition,
it had algorithm that gave partial
credit for cases like this.
But once you do that then
there are these complicated
questions of how much partial
credit to give in which cases,
and it's not exactly clear and
you have various arbitrary parameters.
So really most of the rest of the field
hasn't gone there and has ended up
using a straightforward F1 measure for
named entity recognition despite
the complexities with boundary errors
that I've just tried to illustrated.
Okay, so that should give you a good sense
of what these measures of precision,
recall and F-measure are.
Why they're useful, how we use them for
named entity recognition, but
also a slight sense for
how you have to be a little bit careful
interpreting the numbers in that case.